plugins/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://netzo.io" rel="noopener" target="_blank">
    <img width="150" src="https://netzo.io/img/netzo-symbol-light.svg" alt="Netzo logo" />
  </a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">Netzo Plugin Repository</h1>

<p align="center">
  Open source plugins for the <a href="https://app.netzo.io" target="_blank">Netzo WoT Platform</a>, a Web of Things platform to interconnect IoT devices, platforms and services over the web.
</p>

<div align="center">

[![MIT Licensed](https://img.shields.io/github/license/netzoio/plugins)](https://github.com/netzoio/netzo/tree/main/LICENSE)
[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
[![Discord](https://discord.com/api/guilds/790465167523577887/widget.png)](https://discord.gg/6wQRmrcPXp)
[![Follow on Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/netzoio.svg?label=follow+netzoio)](https://twitter.com/netzoio)
[![Visit our Channel](https://img.shields.io/youtube/channel/views/UCHFSTwM7-ZjeJRI0RwtlFmg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCHFSTwM7-ZjeJRI0RwtlFmg)

</div>

> This repository is still a Work in Progress. If you feel like contributing, do let us know!

## Quick Start

This repository lists all officially supported plugins listed on [netzo.io](https://netzo.io/plugins) and used by the [Netzo WoT Platform](https://app.netzo.io).

We review all plugins before they are published. This means that it may take some time before we can review your plugin.

To submit a plugin for review:

1. Fork this repository
2. Copy a starting template from `/_templates` into `/plugins`
3. Develop your plugin by modifying the copied files accordingly
4. Add the URL of the `plugin.json` file to `plugins.json`
5. Create a pull request

> Feel free to contribute plugin requests. We continuously select popular plugin requests (based on upvotes and other factors) to implement them and make them available in the marketplace as core plugins. The source code for `thing-models` and `app` plugins is available directly at the plugin's directory, feel free to contribute the plugin implementation as well. After a quick review they would also appear in the marketplace as community plugins.

## plugin.json

To be valid, a `plugin.json` file must validate against the [plugin.schema.json](./plugin.schema.json) JSON Schema. You can use a tool like [JSON Schema Validator](https://www.jsonschemavalidator.net/) for quickly testing your `plugin.json` files. The following table summarizes the fields in a `plugin.json` file.

| Property      | Type                | Requried | Description                                                                                                      |
| ------------- | ------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `uid`         | String              | true     | A unique ID (camel-case) prefixed by the initials of its the plugin type (`app-`, `tm-` or `wi`)                  |
| `type`        | String              | true     | Plugin type, one of `app`, `thing-model`, or `widget`                                          |
| `version`     | String              | true     | Plugin version in [semantic version](https://semver.org/) format                                                 |
| `status`      | String              | true     | Marks the current development status of the plugin. One of `alpha`, `beta`, `stable`, `requested`, `deprecated`  |
| `category`    | String              | true     | Marks the category of the plugin. One of `core`, `community`, `enterprise`                                       |
| `name`        | String              | true     | A human-friendly display name for the plugin                                                                     |
| `description` | String              | true     | A brief description of the plugin                                                                                |
| `keywords`    | String[]            | false    | An array of relevant keywords (camel-case)                                                                       |
| `authors`     | String[]            | false    | An array of emails of plugin authors or owners (e.g. `first.last@sample.com`)                                    |
| `license`     | String              | false    | A string indicating licensing information (e.g. `MIT`)                                                           |
| `main`        | String              | false    | URL to the plugin's main entry point (e.g. `@netzoio/plugins/plugins/widgets/wi-gp-button-toggle/src/index.js`)   |
| `display`     | [Display](#display) | true     | A `Display` object specifying relevant details for rendering the plugin in the UI                                |
| `links`       | [Link](#display)[]  | false    | An array of [link relations](https://www.w3.org/TR/image-resource/#sizes-member) to related web resources        |
| `form`        | [Form](#form)       | false    | A `Form` object specifiying the `model`, `schema` and `options` to be used in the plugin settings form by the UI |

### Display

| Property      | Type              | Requried | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `imageUrl`    | String            | true     | URL to the plugin's display image (used as logo)                                                                                            |
| `color`       | Object            | false    | String of color in hexadecimal format used by UI in certain places. If none is specified a default will be applied                          |
| `screenshots` | [Image](#image)[] | false    | Array of [image resource objects](https://www.w3.org/TR/image-resource/#sizes-member) specifying sample screenshots of the plugin in action |

#### Image

| Property | Type   | Requried | Description                                                                                                                                   |
| -------- | ------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `label`  | String | false    | The accessible name for the associated image                                                                                                  |
| `sizes`  | String | false    | Specifies which image is most suitable for each display context                                                                               |
| `type`   | String | false    | The [image MIME type](https://mimesniff.spec.whatwg.org/#image-mime-type) for the image resource (e.g. `image/png`, `image/svg`, `image/jpg`) |
| `src`    | String | true     | URL from wich the image can be fetched from the internet                                                                                      |

### Link

| Property | Type   | Requried | Description                                                                                     |
| -------- | ------ | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `rel`    | String | false    | The link relation (see possible values [here](https://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations)) |
| `name`   | String | false    | The human-friendly display name                                                                 |
| `href`   | String | true     | URL to the link resource in the internet                                                        |

### Form

| Property  | Type   | Requried | Description                                                               |
| --------- | ------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `model`   | String | false    | Specifies default values for the plugin settings form in the UI           |
| `schema`  | String | false    | Specifies the expected data format for the plugin settings form in the UI |
| `options` | String | true     | Specifies options for the plugin settings form in the UI                  |

> The UI uses [@koumoul/vjsf](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@koumoul/vjsf) for UI form generation from static JSON schema definitions. For examples and documentation you can look at the `plugin.json` of other plugins or directly in the [library documentation](https://koumoul-dev.github.io/vuetify-jsonschema-form/latest/configuration).

## Example plugin.json

Here's a reduced example of a `plugin.json` file. You can also always have a look at other plugins for further reference.

```json
{
  "uid": "wi-gp-button-toggle",
  "type": "widget",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "status": "beta",
  "category": "core",
  "name": "Toggle Button",
  "description": "Toggle Button widget for Netzo",
  "keywords": ["button-toggle"],
  "authors": ["miguel.romero@netzo.io"],
  "license": "MIT",
  "main": "widgets/components/wi-gp-button-toggle/index.js",
  "display": {
    "imageUrl": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/netzoio/netzo/main/plugins/widgets/wi-gp-button-toggle/src/assets/icon.png",
    "color": "",
    "screenshots": []
  },
  "links": [],
  "form": {
    "model": {},
    "schema": {},
    "options": {}
  }
}
```

## License

Copyright (c) 2022 [Asterisc GmbH](https://netzo.io)

Licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE)

Commit message:

refactor(systems): merges plugin type 'thing-model' and 'api' into 'system'

plugins/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://netzo.io" rel="noopener" target="_blank">
    <img width="150" src="https://netzo.io/img/netzo-symbol-light.svg" alt="Netzo logo" />
  </a>
</p>

<h1 align="center">Netzo Plugin Repository</h1>

<p align="center">
  Open source plugins for the <a href="https://app.netzo.io" target="_blank">Netzo WoT Platform</a>, a Web of Things platform to interconnect IoT devices, platforms and services over the web.
</p>

<div align="center">

[![MIT Licensed](https://img.shields.io/github/license/netzoio/plugins)](https://github.com/netzoio/netzo/tree/main/LICENSE)
[![Contributor Covenant](https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributor%20Covenant-2.1-4baaaa.svg)](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
[![Discord](https://discord.com/api/guilds/790465167523577887/widget.png)](https://discord.gg/6wQRmrcPXp)
[![Follow on Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/netzoio.svg?label=follow+netzoio)](https://twitter.com/netzoio)
[![Visit our Channel](https://img.shields.io/youtube/channel/views/UCHFSTwM7-ZjeJRI0RwtlFmg)](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCHFSTwM7-ZjeJRI0RwtlFmg)

</div>

> This repository is still a Work in Progress. If you feel like contributing, do let us know!

## Quick Start

This repository lists all officially supported plugins listed on [netzo.io](https://netzo.io/plugins) and used by the [Netzo WoT Platform](https://app.netzo.io).

We review all plugins before they are published. This means that it may take some time before we can review your plugin.

To submit a plugin for review:

1. Fork this repository
2. Copy a starting template from `/_templates` into `/plugins`
3. Develop your plugin by modifying the copied files accordingly
4. Add the URL of the `plugin.json` file to `plugins.json`
5. Create a pull request

> Feel free to contribute plugin requests. We continuously select popular plugin requests (based on upvotes and other factors) to implement them and make them available in the marketplace as core plugins. The source code for relevant plugins (those with a `main` field in its `plugin.json` file) can be stored directly at the plugin's directory, feel free to contribute the plugin implementation as well. After a quick review they would also appear in the marketplace as community plugins.

## plugin.json

To be valid, a `plugin.json` file must validate against the [plugin.schema.json](./plugin.schema.json) JSON Schema. You can use a tool like [JSON Schema Validator](https://www.jsonschemavalidator.net/) for quickly testing your `plugin.json` files. The following table summarizes the fields in a `plugin.json` file.

| Property      | Type                | Requried | Description                                                                                                      |
| ------------- | ------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `uid`         | String              | true     | A unique ID (camel-case) prefixed by the initials of its the plugin type (`app-`, `sys-` or `wi`)                  |
| `type`        | String              | true     | Plugin type, one of `app`, `system`, or `widget`                                          |
| `version`     | String              | true     | Plugin version in [semantic version](https://semver.org/) format                                                 |
| `status`      | String              | true     | Marks the current development status of the plugin. One of `alpha`, `beta`, `stable`, `requested`, `deprecated`  |
| `category`    | String              | true     | Marks the category of the plugin. One of `core`, `community`, `enterprise`                                       |
| `name`        | String              | true     | A human-friendly display name for the plugin                                                                     |
| `description` | String              | true     | A brief description of the plugin                                                                                |
| `keywords`    | String[]            | false    | An array of relevant keywords (camel-case)                                                                       |
| `authors`     | String[]            | false    | An array of emails of plugin authors or owners (e.g. `first.last@sample.com`)                                    |
| `license`     | String              | false    | A string indicating licensing information (e.g. `MIT`)                                                           |
| `main`        | String              | false    | URL to the plugin's main entry point (e.g. `@netzoio/plugins/plugins/widgets/wi-gp-button-toggle/src/index.js`)   |
| `display`     | [Display](#display) | true     | A `Display` object specifying relevant details for rendering the plugin in the UI                                |
| `links`       | [Link](#display)[]  | false    | An array of [link relations](https://www.w3.org/TR/image-resource/#sizes-member) to related web resources        |
| `form`        | [Form](#form)       | false    | A `Form` object specifiying the `model`, `schema` and `options` to be used in the plugin settings form by the UI |

### Display

| Property      | Type              | Requried | Description                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `imageUrl`    | String            | true     | URL to the plugin's display image (used as logo)                                                                                            |
| `color`       | Object            | false    | String of color in hexadecimal format used by UI in certain places. If none is specified a default will be applied                          |
| `screenshots` | [Image](#image)[] | false    | Array of [image resource objects](https://www.w3.org/TR/image-resource/#sizes-member) specifying sample screenshots of the plugin in action |

#### Image

| Property | Type   | Requried | Description                                                                                                                                   |
| -------- | ------ | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `label`  | String | false    | The accessible name for the associated image                                                                                                  |
| `sizes`  | String | false    | Specifies which image is most suitable for each display context                                                                               |
| `type`   | String | false    | The [image MIME type](https://mimesniff.spec.whatwg.org/#image-mime-type) for the image resource (e.g. `image/png`, `image/svg`, `image/jpg`) |
| `src`    | String | true     | URL from wich the image can be fetched from the internet                                                                                      |

### Link

| Property | Type   | Requried | Description                                                                                     |
| -------- | ------ | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `rel`    | String | false    | The link relation (see possible values [here](https://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations)) |
| `name`   | String | false    | The human-friendly display name                                                                 |
| `href`   | String | true     | URL to the link resource in the internet                                                        |

### Form

| Property  | Type   | Requried | Description                                                               |
| --------- | ------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `model`   | String | false    | Specifies default values for the plugin settings form in the UI           |
| `schema`  | String | false    | Specifies the expected data format for the plugin settings form in the UI |
| `options` | String | true     | Specifies options for the plugin settings form in the UI                  |

> The UI uses [@koumoul/vjsf](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@koumoul/vjsf) for UI form generation from static JSON schema definitions. For examples and documentation you can look at the `plugin.json` of other plugins or directly in the [library documentation](https://koumoul-dev.github.io/vuetify-jsonschema-form/latest/configuration).

## Example plugin.json

Here's a reduced example of a `plugin.json` file. You can also always have a look at other plugins for further reference.

```json
{
  "uid": "wi-gp-button-toggle",
  "type": "widget",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "status": "beta",
  "category": "core",
  "name": "Toggle Button",
  "description": "Toggle Button widget for Netzo",
  "keywords": ["button-toggle"],
  "authors": ["miguel.romero@netzo.io"],
  "license": "MIT",
  "main": "widgets/components/wi-gp-button-toggle/index.js",
  "display": {
    "imageUrl": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/netzoio/netzo/main/plugins/widgets/wi-gp-button-toggle/src/assets/icon.png",
    "color": "",
    "screenshots": []
  },
  "links": [],
  "form": {
    "model": {},
    "schema": {},
    "options": {}
  }
}
```

## License

Copyright (c) 2022 [Asterisc GmbH](https://netzo.io)

Licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE)
